Alpha: Animating Algorithms Much of practical computer science can be
explained by drawing boxes and arrows that represent data structures.
The contents of the boxes and the connectivity of the lines then changes
as an algorithm proceeds. This is difficult to achieve using whiteboards
or drawing programs. What is needed is a program that produces
slow-motion animated films of data structures and algorithms at work.
The system should provide a general mechanism for writing an animation
script and connecting it to an implemented algorithm. The user should be
able to set up the initial data for the algorithm and then step through
to watch its operation. Auxiliary displays showing the time and space
requirements of the algorithm might also be shown. The system should be
demonstrated by animating at least five different algorithms for two
different problems – say three sorting algorithms and two heap
management routines.

Bravo: Book Bluffer's Spectacles Don't you hate it when somebody is
displaying a new book, but you haven't got anything clever to say about
it? One day soon, the frame of your spectacles will scan the barcode,
then look up the book on the web in order to display an intelligent
quote on the inside of your lenses. Your job is to prototype this
system. Implement a bar-code reader using the EPXA1 teaching board, then
deduce the ISBN number and access an online book review. Some useful
information can be found at: <http://www.bic.org.uk/bar4book.html>
Special resources: some technical assistance, including advice on
selection and purchase of electronic components, can be provided by
Arnab.Banerjee@cl.cam.ac.uk.

Charlie: Reconstructing Sketchpad Sketchpad was the first interactive
graphics program, created by Ivan Sutherland for the TX-2 computer at
the MIT Lincoln Labs. It was one of the most influential programs ever
written, and provided features that are still not found in commercial
products 40 years later. Your goal is to simulate (as a “virtual TX-2”
implemented in Java) as much of the internal architecture as possible.
Your system should reproduce the original user interface of Sketchpad,
and also provide a visualization of the internal state. Sutherland’s
Sketchpad system is described in his PhD thesis, available online at:
<http://www.cl.cam.ac.uk/TechReports/UCAM-CL-TR-574.pdf>

Delta: Digital Logic Simulator First year computer scientists sometimes
have difficulty working out how Boolean logic and finite state machines
work. It might be helpful to have a simple graphical simulator that
would allow a small circuit diagram to be sketched and then exercised
with test signals, and the resulting changes in signals displayed. The
user interface should allow the user to select components from a library
(including, say, 2- and 3-input NOR and NAND gates, RS-, JK-, D- and
T-type flip-flops) and place them on the screen together with switches
and LEDs. Connections could then be made between these by drawing lines
between specified pins on the components. It would be helpful if the
circuit could be saved to a file and restored so that a user can return
to an earlier piece of work after a break.

Echo: Extensible Conference Management System Create a system to manage
the paper-submission and review process for an academic conference,
workshop or journal. You should aim to improve on existing systems such
as the Editor’s Assistant (http://edas.info/doc/) and ConfMan
(http://www.ifi.uio.no/confman/demo/). The system must be easily usable
by authors, referees and editors – with a wide range of computing skill
levels.

Foxtrot: Next-Generation Museum Guide Visitors to the Fitzwilliam Museum
in Cambridge can currently use a handheld eGuide, deployed on PDAs with
location sensing infrastructure from local company Hypertag. Your task
is to design a next-generation guide aimed at an audience of eight-year
olds. The device should enable users to guide the rest of their family
around the Museum during their visit. It should also allow users to
construct a thematic story inspired by a selection of museum objects. By
combining the user's narrative with multimedia material, the system will
automatically generate a personalised (HTML-based) videogame that users
and their friends can later play online. Special resources: Team members
will have the opportunity to visit the Fitzwilliam to discuss this
project with museum staff. However there is no need to base your
demonstrated system on exhibits or multimedia material from the
Fitzwilliam. It may also be possible for the client to arrange loan of a
suitable PDA platform, and access to Hypertag technology.

Golf: Distributed Game Take any popular board or card game (preferably
one not encumbered with patent or copyright restrictions) and make a
computer version of it that can be played over a network. Go and chess
are possibilities, but something like Mah-jong or poker with more than
two players could be better. The system must enforce the rules and
manage the shared state of the game, keeping it consistent between the
machines, and display it attractively through a graphical user
interface. Ideally, the system should survive failure of some of the
participants, and it should be possible for players to join and leave
the game at any time. An automatic player can also be provided to make
up numbers when there are not enough real players.

Hotel: Student Comfort System The student workstation area in the Gates
Building is subject to substantial variations in temperature and
humidity, especially during the annual group project demonstration day.
Your task is to design an environmental control system that will monitor
and predict changing comfort levels. This should be done sufficiently
accurately that corrective action can be taken before conditions become
too extreme for passive airflow modifications to be effective. You will
use a Squirrel environmental datalogger, with sensors to record current
environmental conditions and count the number of people entering and
leaving. Based on your recordings of the effects of occupancy and
incident sunlight, you should develop a predictive model that will then
be used to regulate conditions by managing airflow on the final project
demonstration day. Special resources: the project client, an engineer
from Grant Instruments, will loan a Squirrel datalogger, together with
documentation and suitable sensors.

India: Synthetic Sudoku A group project coordinator is addicted to
Sudoku. One puzzle a day is no longer enough, so, like many others, he
would like an automated Sudoku puzzle generator. This would also allow
the generated puzzles to be completed on-screen. If the player gets
stuck, he should be able to request a hint at any time. It should be
possible to save and restore work in progress. The system should also
provide a competition mode, in which two players work on the same
puzzle, with each player’s display indicating progress made by the
other.

Juliet: 3D Puzzle Experience A local entrepreneur has designed a new
logic puzzle, similar to Peter's Black Hole, but with blocks that change
colour when they move. Your task is to create a Java applet that could
be used to model and demonstrate the behaviour of the new puzzle. It
should give applet users a pleasurable experience of understanding and
solving the puzzle, and could include animated visualisation of an
automatic puzzle-solver working in 3-D. Information on similar puzzles
and Java applets is available from Jaap's Puzzle Page:
www.geocities.com/jaapsch/puzzles. Special resources: a description of
the puzzle can be obtained from the project client, Kelvin Stott
<kelvin.stott@btinternet.com>

Kilo: Programming for Artists Seymour Papert’s Logo, Steven Tanimoto’s
Pixel Calculator, and John Maeda’s Design By Numbers have all tried to
teach basic computational concepts by focusing on image manipulation.
Your task is to design a new educational language, suitable for use by
first-year art or architecture students. Your system should offer a
sufficiently engaging aesthetic experience to keep art students
interested at least until they have acquired the concepts in sections
4.1 to 4.4 of Arthur Norman's Java notes. (You don't have to use Java
syntax.)

Lima: Last-Resort PWF Expansion Security and other administrative
considerations cause PWF administrators to take a conservative view of
system expansion. This can be inconvenient for more adventurous group
projects, as can be confirmed by attempting to connect Bluetooth or
other exotic USB devices to a PWF workstation. In the last resort, the
only output channel left might be the display screen! Your task is to
devise a data communications channel that sends data via the screen to
an EPXA1 teaching board, using one or more light sensing devices, along
with a suitable transmission protocol. Special resources: some technical
assistance, including advice on selection and purchase of electronic
components, can be provided by Arnab.Banerjee@cl.cam.ac.uk.

Mike: Mobile Map Service One of the challenges of mobile information
devices is that the available screen space is so much smaller than on
desktop systems. This project is to create a restaurant, shop and
entertainment finding service that provides users with attractive maps
showing how to get to their advertising clients when users have a web
browser, but simpler text instructions (“go left next corner” etc.) when
accessed from a mobile phone. Information about the advertising clients,
their location, and layout of local streets will be stored in XML
format. Simple graphical maps will be constructed from this information
by a Java applet that can be incorporated in web pages. Wireless users
will be able to access the same information, but rendered as a series of
brief text instructions.

November: Sampling Synthesiser Bands that use sampled sounds often want
to adjust the pitch, or even play a tune, as in novelty tracks where a
barking dog sings Happy Birthday. The EPXA1 teaching board can be used
for simple signal processing. Your task is to turn it into a
synthesiser, using sound captured and downloaded from a CD, so that it
can be played directly as a musical instrument or used as a remote
synthesiser. Special resources: some technical assistance, including
advice on selection and purchase of electronic components, can be
provided by Jonathan.May@cl.cam.ac.uk.

Oscar: Optical Tomography We have some hardware to scan the convex
surfaces of objects. The hardware consists of a turntable on top of
which the object is placed. On one side of the turntable is an array of
LED emitters, and on the other side is a set of optical receivers. By
sequencing the LEDs, one can produce a sequence of shadows which are
detected by the optical receivers. Rotating the object allows further
sets of shadows to be produced. These shadows are then analysed using
tomography techniques to determine the shape of the object being
scanned. You should use an EPXA1 teaching board to drive the turntable
via a stepper motor, to scan the LEDs and optical receivers, and provide
video output. You should also implement the tomography code on the ARM
processor embedded in the teaching board. Special resources: some
technical assistance, including advice on selection and purchase of
electronic components, can be provided by Jonathan.May@cl.cam.ac.uk.