Alpha: Animating Algorithms Much of practical computer science can be
explained by drawing boxes and arrows that represent data structures.
The content of the boxes and the connectivity of the lines then changes
as an algorithm proceeds. This is difficult to achieve using whiteboards
or drawing programs. What is needed is a program that produces
slow-motion animated films of data structures and algorithms at work.
The system should provide a general mechanism for writing an animation
script and connecting it to an implemented algorithm. The user should be
able to set up the initial data for a variety of algorithms and then
step through to watch their operation. It would be convenient if the
resulting movie can be exported in a form suitable for viewing online or
including in a PowerPoint presentation.

Bravo: Book Bluffer's Spectacles (hardware project) Don't you hate it
when somebody is displaying a new book, but you haven't got anything
clever to say about it? One day soon, the frame of your spectacles will
scan the barcode, then look up the book on the web in order to display
an intelligent quote on the inside of your lenses. Your job is to
prototype this system. Implement a bar-code reader using the DE2 board,
then deduce the ISBN number and access an online book review. Some
useful information can be found at:
<http://bic.org.uk/isbnbarcode-rfid.html>

Charlie: Wednesday Mash-up The public seminars presented at the Computer
Laboratory on Wednesday afternoons are accessible online from a video
archive. At present, this archive allows viewers to replay the talk, but
not index, tag, edit, or link it to other research and teaching
material. Design an interactive tool that would allow a wider community
of users to restructure and reorganise archived seminars for a greater
variety of browsing, viewing and linking. Your tool need not be
integrated into a web browser, or use web services for video streaming.
A reasonable approach would be to make a special Java client (perhaps
based on Java Media Framework) that allows users to download a whole
video file and add local structured content that can later be viewed by
others using the same client.

Delta: Digital Logic Simulator First year computer scientists sometimes
have difficulty working out how Boolean logic and finite state machines
work. It might be helpful to have a simple graphical simulator that
would allow a small circuit diagram to be sketched and then exercised
with test signals, and the resulting changes in signals displayed. The
user interface should allow the user to select components from a library
(including, say, 2- and 3-input NOR and NAND gates, RS-, JK-, D- and
T-type flip-flops) and place them on the screen together with switches
and LEDs. Connections could then be made between these by drawing lines
between specified pins on the components. It would be helpful if the
circuit could be saved to a file and restored so that a user can return
to an earlier piece of work after a break.

Echo: Controllers for Kids (hardware project) The UK school syllabus for
Design and Technology encourages kids to gain experience of programming
robots and other digitally-controlled gadgets. Those student projects
are usually limited by slow hardware and clunky programming interfaces.
Your task is to create a compiler that will allow Sixth Form D&T
students to draw a state machine on their PC screen, then compile it
into a form that can be downloaded and executed on a DE2 board, either
as interpreted transition tables or by direct output of ARM
instructions. You should build a physical demonstrator machine that
shows off the versatility of your control system.

Foxtrot: Next-Generation Museum Guide Visitors to the [Fitzwilliam
Museum](Fitzwilliam_Museum "wikilink") in Cambridge can currently use a
handheld eGuide, deployed on PDAs with location sensing infrastructure
from local company Hypertag. Your task is to design a next-generation
guide aimed at an audience of eight-year olds. The device should enable
users to guide the rest of their family around the Museum during their
visit. It should also allow users to construct a thematic story inspired
by a selection of museum objects. By combining the user's narrative with
multimedia material, the system will automatically generate a
personalised (HTML-based) videogame that users and their friends can
later play online.

Golf: Intelligent Schedule Negotiator Scheduling problems are
notoriously hard. In Cambridge, they are even harder, because Colleges
and Departments see the world in different ways. The impact is severe
for NatSci Part 1A students, who must take afternoon practical courses
managed by multiple departments, under constraints set by multiple
colleges. Your task is to design a system that will allow users to
propose and negotiate their various constraints, with sophisticated
conflict resolutions supported by artificial intelligence techniques.
The first stage in the project will require brief interviews with
representative users, including some College Directors of Studies, and
Part 1A teaching coordinators.

Hotel: Ring around the World Design a web application that uses the
Google Maps API to show the distribution of Computer Lab Ring members
around the world. Include a secure protocol such that (with mutual
consent) two members can exchange contact details when they live within
a specified travelling distance, or are visiting the same location. All
personal data must otherwise be securely protected, under the control of
a database administrator.

India: Web 2.0 Research Gateway Social networking and user-driven
content are making everyone excited about “Web 2.0”. Could such
techniques improve University research? The talks.cam system allows
researchers across Cambridge to generate and access descriptions of the
latest research. However, talks.cam doesn't include user
recommendations, ratings, tagging and the other advanced features you'd
expect in Web 2.0 content delivery systems such as Flickr, YouTube and
so on. Using the XML interfaces to talks.cam, design a system that
offers students, prospective students, and the outside world, direct
insight to whatever research is most relevant or exciting to them. See:
<http://talks.cam.ac.uk/document/specification>

Juliet: Pipe Dreams Design an online fantasy game in which players
compete to reach items of treasure inside a three-dimensional maze of
pipes and tanks. The display need not be three dimensional (it might use
2-D perspective renderings of the pipe interiors), but should give
advice on which players have the best chance of reaching each treasure,
based on speeds with which players can run around corners of varying
radius, climb ladders versus sliding down, etc. Although players only
see the inside of the maze, you can create a 3-D visualisation for use
by a Game Master, by exporting the whole maze description to a rendering
engine.

Kilo: Programming for Artists Seymour Papert’s Logo, Steven Tanimoto’s
Pixel Calculator, and John Maeda’s Design By Numbers have all tried to
teach basic computational concepts by focusing on image manipulation.
Your task is to design a new educational language, suitable for use by
first-year art or architecture students. Your system should offer a
sufficiently engaging aesthetic experience to keep art students
interested at least until they have acquired concepts sufficient to
create a simple interactive web animation or illustrated talk.

Lima: Street Video Wall (hardware project) The public display screens in
the Gates Building “Street” are informative, but don’t showcase the
abilities of our students. Using the DE2 teaching boards, it should be
possible to create a “video wall” that accepts VNC display commands and
outputs a large display across multiple screens. Start with four
screens, driven from four DE2 boards. Provide a software application
interface suitable for use in a student design competition to create an
interactive display that will impress visitors. The application
interface might also provide audio, motion, SMS, web or environment
sensing via the DE2 for multimodal interaction.

Mike: Mobile Map Service One of the challenges of mobile information
devices is that the available screen space is so much smaller than on
desktop systems. This project is to create a restaurant, shop and
entertainment finding service that provides users with attractive maps
showing how to get to their advertising clients when users have a web
browser, but simpler text instructions (“go left next corner” etc.) when
accessed from a mobile phone. Information about the advertising clients,
their location, and layout of local streets will be stored in XML
format. Simple graphical maps will be constructed from this information
by a Java applet that can be incorporated in web pages. SMS users will
be able to access the same information, but rendered as a series of
brief text instructions.

November: Sampling Synthesiser (hardware project) Bands that use sampled
sounds often want to adjust the pitch, or even play a tune, as in
novelty tracks where a barking dog sings Happy Birthday. The DE2 board
can be used for simple signal processing. Your task is to turn it into a
synthesiser, using sound captured and downloaded from a CD, so that it
can be played directly as a musical instrument or used as a remote
synthesiser.

Oscar: Smart Poster Picker (with [Fitzwilliam
Museum](Fitzwilliam_Museum "wikilink") Many people like to buy poster
reproductions of famous artworks. This could be done by using a mobile
phone to take a picture of the painting they would like to hang on their
wall, and sending an MMS message to a poster distribution service.
Design a system that retrieves and ranks probable matching candidates
from a database of posters, based on a mobile phone image. A simple
metric for matching might be the relative averages or variances of hue
in each quadrant of the image. Where the photo is not good enough to
provide an effective match, users should also be able to navigate
through thumbnails of the available posters, arranged according to the
match metric for aesthetic graphical navigation.