Alpha: Animating Algorithms Much of practical computer science can be
explained by drawing boxes and arrows that represent data structures.
The content of the boxes and the connectivity of the lines then changes
as an algorithm proceeds. This is difficult to achieve using whiteboards
or drawing programs. What is needed is a program that produces
slow-motion animated films of data structures and algorithms at work.
The system should provide a general mechanism for writing an animation
script and connecting it to an implemented algorithm. The user should be
able to set up the initial data for a variety of algorithms and then
step through to watch their operation. It would be convenient if the
resulting movie can be exported in a form suitable for viewing online or
including in a PowerPoint presentation.

Bravo: Magic board games (hardware project) Find a way to create a
‘magic’ board game in which a computer opponent moves the pieces
invisibly, perhaps with magnets moving under the board. A significant
amount of mechanical assembly and experimentation is likely to be
necessary. This will be achieved using stepper motors, rotary encoders,
and construction using a simple prototyping toolset such as Lego
Technic.

Charlie: Wednesday Mash-up The public seminars presented at the Computer
Laboratory on Wednesday afternoons are accessible online from a video
archive. At present, this archive allows viewers to replay the talk, but
not index, tag, edit, or link it to other research and teaching
material. Design an interactive tool that would allow a wider community
of users to restructure and reorganise archived seminars for a greater
variety of browsing, viewing and linking. Your tool need not be
integrated into a web browser, or use web services for video streaming.
A reasonable approach would be to make a special Java client (perhaps
based on Java Media Framework) that allows users to download a whole
video file and add local structured content that can later be viewed by
others using the same client.

Delta: Digital Logic Simulator "It would be useful if a first year
computer scientist could rapidly prototype a circuit on an Altera DE2
FPGA board without using a hardware description language. The user
interface might be presented as a graphical circuit entry system
allowing the user to select components from a library (including, 2- and
3-input NOR and NAND gates, RS-latch and D flip-flop) and place them on
the screen. Additional components like RAMs and ROMs would be desirable.
Switches and LEDs that are present on the DE2 board should be present in
the graphical environment to allow circuits to interfaced to them.
Saving and loading of circuits is desirable. Circuits created should be
simulated on the DE2 board. The transfer of the circuit to the FPGA
simulation might happen in real-time (i.e. any change in the circuit is
reflected "instantly" in the simulation). The simulation might be
performed in software by a soft processor on the FPGA. For a high
performance implementation, the graphical circuit might also be written
out as Verilog and then synthesised for direct implementation on the
FPGA."

Echo: Controllers for Kids (hardware project) The UK school syllabus for
Design and Technology encourages kids to gain experience of programming
robots and other digitally-controlled gadgets. Those student projects
are usually limited by slow hardware and clunky programming interfaces.
Your task is to create a compiler that will allow Sixth Form D&T
students to draw a state machine on their PC screen, then compile it
into a form that can be downloaded and executed on a DE2 board, either
as interpreted transition tables or by direct output of ARM
instructions. You should build a physical demonstrator machine that
shows off the versatility of your control system.

Foxtrot: Pocket Power Predictor It's irritating when your mobile shows
full battery power for 3 whole days, then suddenly drops to one flashing
red bar as you're halfway through a text. It's even more annoying when
that happens to your planet. The aim of this project is to design a
pocket visualisation, running on Google Android, that will help you
anticipate your future energy problems on all scales, from the phone
itself, to your home heating and travel needs. The visualisation should
also scale up to global problems, when you need rapid data for political
debate. Use as many data sources as possible - RSS feeds, live updates
on international agency websites, and the many sources of information
from www.withouthotair.com

Golf: Statistical Persuasion Maker A well-presented statistical argument
is very valuable. Many politicians, policy makers and members of the
public find it hard to understand risk factors, likelihood, and what the
priorities for action should be in an uncertain world. But Al Gore's
film An Inconvenient Truth showed the power of well-designed statistical
graphics. Web sites like <http://www.gapminder.org/> help people explore
political and economic statistics, and sites like
<http://www.understandinguncertainty.org/> help people understand
statistical principles through animations of risk data. But it is hard
for regular people to create sites like these (it usually involves a lot
of Flash programming). Your task is to create an authoring tool that
helps people communicate statistical arguments by creating interactive
online graphics. They might get help to structure the arguments, as in
<http://compendium.open.ac.uk/>. They should also be able to collect
their own data from online sources, for example using data mashup tools
like Yahoo Pipes.

Hotel: Ring around the World Design a web application that uses the
Google Maps API to show the distribution of Computer Lab Ring members
around the world. Include a secure protocol such that (with mutual
consent) two members can exchange contact details when they live within
a specified travelling distance, or are visiting the same location. All
personal data must otherwise be securely protected, under the control of
a database administrator.

India: Web 2.0 for Scholars Businesses are rapidly moving to adopt ‘web
2.0’ approaches for product forums, marketing and on. Could such
techniques improve academic research? The talks.cam system allows
researchers across Cambridge to generate and access descriptions of the
latest research. However, talks.cam doesn't include user
recommendations, ratings, tagging and the other advanced features you'd
expect in Web 2.0 content delivery systems such as Flickr, YouTube and
so on. Using the XML interfaces to talks.cam, design a system that
offers academics, prospective students, and the outside world, direct
insight to whatever research is most relevant or exciting to them. See:
<http://talks.cam.ac.uk/document/specification>

Juliet: Pipe Dreams Design an online fantasy game in which players
compete to reach items of treasure inside a three-dimensional maze of
pipes and tanks. The display need not be three dimensional (it might use
2-D perspective renderings of the pipe interiors), but should give
advice on which players have the best chance of reaching each treasure,
based on speeds with which players can run around corners of varying
radius, climb ladders versus sliding down, etc. Although players only
see the inside of the maze, you can create a 3-D visualisation for use
by a Game Master, by exporting the whole maze description to a rendering
engine.

Lima: Street Video Wall (hardware project) The public display screens in
the Gates Building “Street” are informative, but don’t showcase the
abilities of our students. Using the DE2 teaching boards, it should be
possible to create a “video wall” that accepts VNC display commands and
outputs a large display across multiple screens. Start with four
screens, driven from four DE2 boards. Provide a software application
interface suitable for use in a student design competition to create an
interactive display that will impress visitors. The application
interface might also provide audio, motion, SMS, web or environment
sensing via the DE2 for multimodal interaction.

Mike: Mobile Map Service One of the challenges of mobile information
devices is that the available screen space is so much smaller than on
desktop systems. This project is to create a restaurant, shop and
entertainment finding service that provides users with attractive maps
showing how to get to their advertising clients when users have a web
browser, but simpler text instructions (“go left next corner” etc.) when
accessed from a mobile phone. Information about the advertising clients,
their location, and layout of local streets will be stored in XML
format. Simple graphical maps will be constructed from this information
by a Java applet that can be incorporated in web pages. SMS users will
be able to access the same information, but rendered as a series of
brief text instructions.

November: Sampling Synthesiser (hardware project) Bands that use sampled
sounds often want to adjust the pitch, or even play a tune, as in
novelty tracks where a barking dog sings Happy Birthday. The DE2 board
can be used for simple signal processing. Your task is to turn it into a
synthesiser, using sound captured and downloaded from a CD, so that it
can be played directly as a musical instrument or used as a remote
synthesiser.

Oscar: Graphical Shared Wiki Editor TinyMCE is a platform independent
WYSIWYG editor for HTML that is a popular component of web content
management systems. A typical application is a wiki-style environment,
allowing users to click on a button in the page, after which their
browser loads an editor window containing the page content, with
formatting controls that save the resulting changes as HTML. The
disadvantage of TinyMCE is that it doesn't allow multiple users to make
edits at the same time (it would be necessary to handle contention
between users), and it doesn't support advanced diagrammatic elements
such as SVG. Your task is to make a multi-user collaborative editor that
runs within a browser and generates wiki pages incorporating HTML and
SVG.