Contact: Megan Foden <Megan.Foden@alderhey.nhs.uk>

[Speech Error Detection &
Correction](Speech_Error_Detection_&_Correction "wikilink") Children
with cleft palate often experience specific speech errors that require
targeted feedback to correct. Traditional speech therapy sessions are
time-consuming and may not provide immediate, specific guidance during
at-home practice. This project aims to develop an interactive tool that
detects cleft-related speech errors and offers real-time, personalised
feedback. The tool must create a baseline and then learn as the child
practices how they are improving. The goal is to support speech
therapists by providing patients with an engaging way to practice and
improve their speech outside of clinical sessions, enhancing the overall
effectiveness of treatment.

[Conversational Patient History for ASD and
ADHD](Conversational_Patient_History_for_ASD_and_ADHD "wikilink")
Waiting lists for Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD) and Attention Deficit
Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) assessments are growing, partly due to the
extensive time specialists spend on developmental history taking-often
hours per patient. This project aims to create a conversational AI tool
that allows children and their parents to provide comprehensive patient
history in a natural, dialogue-based manner. By engaging users in a
conversational interface rather than requiring them to fill out lengthy
forms, the system can extract necessary clinical information and
automatically format it into a report. This innovation seeks to
streamline the initial assessment process, saving specialists' time and
potentially reducing waiting lists.

[Generative Custom Heart
Models](Generative_Custom_Heart_Models "wikilink") Communicating complex
heart conditions to patients and their families is challenging.
Clinicians often resort to hand-drawn diagrams to explain cardiac
anatomy, but these are non-standardized, vary in quality, and can be
easily lost-leaving parents without a clear understanding. Additionally,
patients with multiple defects find that standard diagrams do not
accurately represent their unique conditions. This project aims to
develop a generative AI tool that allows clinicians to create custom
heart models through voice (or other, more applicable) interactions. By
simply describing the anatomical issues, the AI will generate accurate,
personalised animations illustrating the patient's specific condition.
This tool will standardize visual explanations, make information easier
to digest for families, enhancing overall understanding and care.