Contact: Andrew Grant <ajg60@cam.ac.uk>

University Senior Lecturer in Bacterial Pathogenesis, Department of
Veterinary Medicine

### Final project

[Campy Bird](Campy_Bird "wikilink")

### Background

Many thanks for taking time to consider the idea that we have for a
Public Engagement part on a BBSRC sLoLa Full Proposal that we are
putting together - Genomics and Engineering to Target campylobacter (GET
Campy).

Background to the project: Infection by Campylobacter is the most common
cause of bacterial diarrhoeal disease worldwide, responsible for ~500
million cases of gastroenteritis each year. In the UK, Campylobacter is
believed to be responsible for 45-75% of the one million cases of
foodborne disease each year, involving 22,000 hospitalisations and 110
deaths. Current estimates by the Food Standards Agency indicate that the
cost of human campylobacteriosis to the UK is around £900 million, out
of a total of around £1.5 billion for all foodborne infections.

Campylobacter is commonly found in the gastrointestinal tracts of
animals destined for human consumption, with faecal contamination of
meat during processing a recognised route of transmission to humans. It
is estimated that up to 80% of raw chicken sold in the UK is
contaminated with Campylobacter, and studies suggest that the
consumption of poultry is responsible for 50-70% of all infections that
are reported. The current level of contamination of raw poultry on sale
in the UK presents an unacceptably high public health burden, and
reducing cases of Campylobacter is the UK Food Standards Agency’s top
food safety priority. Despite this, the number of human
campylobacteriosis cases have in fact increased over the last few years.
Alternative strategies are needed to reduce Campylobacter in chickens
and the Campylobacter-induced disease burden in humans.

The project: We contend that a fresh approach is required. We propose to
use systems and process engineering approaches to develop a thorough
understanding of the poultry production system and combine this with an
in depth study of the complex bacterial community as it moves through
the system. The former will provide a complete, impartial, overview of
the poultry production system, from chick to plate, while the latter
will provide insight into the behaviour of complex Campylobacter
communities. This will enable us to identify pinch points where
interventions should be targeted to reduce bacterial numbers, while
avoiding the selection of populations with increased ability to survive
those interventions, and/or an increased ability to cause disease. To do
this, we have assembled a cross- and multi-disciplinary research
programme combining expertise in engineering and biological sciences,
systems engineering, molecular biology, microbiology, bioinformatics,
biochemistry, and field epidemiology.

This research will provide improved understanding of the behaviour of
Campylobacter in the food production system in the context of realistic,
precisely targeted intervention options. The intended outcome is to
provide detailed, extensive data to underpin and support the
identification of new strategies for intervention to reduce
Campylobacter levels in the food chain, leading to major health and
economic benefits.

Campylobacter App: From year 2 or 3 of the project, we will use the
engineering and bacterial population information collected in years 1
and 2 to provide a model for a game app, in which the user will follow
the chicken from farm to fork, attempting to avoid contamination with
Campylobacter through a variety of interventions, such as washing,
temperature. The game could be played from the perspective of the
chicken or the Campylobacter, and would include an element of public
health information (such as proper cooking of the poultry prior to
consumption will eliminate Campylobacter), as well as improving
understanding of the poultry production and processing systems. Anna and
I have a rough idea of what it might look like, but we have no idea how
much work it is! Andrea had suggested that the project might fit nicely
for a Part Ib project? I think that this could be a nice idea and would
allow us to combine Public Engagement with training as well (!!), also,
it could be something that was developed during the duration of the
award, since during the grant we will collect genomic and transcriptomic
information of the bacteria, then come up with interventions, then try
them in real life production systems and monitor what happens to the
bacteria - each year the new information/understanding could be
incorporated into the app.