Client: [Cambridge Consultants](Cambridge_Consultants "wikilink")

Contact: Alistair Morfey <alistair.morfey@cambridgeconsultants.com>

This project needs a clearer target market before proceeding

There are now over 2 billion XAP embedded processors in silicon. These
are all 16-bit devices. We are about to release a 32-bit XAP6 IP core.
It is implemented in Verilog RTL and has a GNU software toolkit (GCC,
Binutils) that connects to our xIDE debugger tool (can control a
hardware target or instruction-level simulator). We have implemented the
XAP6 in hardware on our xEMU mini PCB (that includes a Xilinx Spartan
FPGA). The board also contains LCD, buttons, buzzer, Ethernet, RS232,
ADC, DAC, 84 IO signals (in two 50-pin connectors) and our SIF debug
interface (connects to PC with USB). We want to have interesting
applications developed for this platform. Students can chose whatever
they like. We simply want things that demonstrate the technology well.
This is a good way to see the insides of a processor and gain a deep
understanding of how the hardware world joins up with the software
world. Alan Mycroft will be interested in this !

initial feedback

We have often had applications for new single-board devices, often with
some kind of FPGA or other specialist functionality. We'd usually try to
steer toward a specific market or application area that suits the
strengths of the particular board. What do you see as the main technical
strengths or market appeal of the dev board you'd like to use?

The goal here is to come up with some kind of business opportunity,
application or benefit proposition. I may have missed something, but at
present this one seems pretty much like "Here's a computer - what would
you like to do with it?"