(Bank of America)

Letizia Pepe <letizia.pepe@baml.com>

Piers Thompson <piers.thompson@baml.com>

### 2016

We are thinking of asking the students to develop a platform that allows
trading algorithms to be interactively developed and tested (both
back-tested and tested against live market data) and compare
performance.

Feedback: Your suggestion has some similarities to this project form
2014, so you might like to think of ways that it could be updated or
adapted: [Algo-Trading Game](Algo-Trading_Game "wikilink")

Edited to length:

[Simulated Stock Exchange](Simulated_Stock_Exchange "wikilink")

### Previous (2015) project

[Financial Trading Trends](Financial_Trading_Trends "wikilink")

Global real-time information rules the financial markets. Institutions
need to make use of complex modelling tools to predict trends and stay
ahead of the curve. However, it's currently very difficult to get access
to this information without a subscription to various services (e.g.
Bloomberg).

With the abundance of data on the web, we now think that there is an
opportunity to go outside the usual sources and begin sourcing data from
places outside of the norm. For example, as the influence of social
networks continues to increase, so does the likelihood of stories and
individuals influencing global markets on a more regular basis. Think
how a possible tweet from a high profile celebrity may adversely affect
the stock price of a certain consumer product, for instance.

The goal of this project is to create a system that models the impact of
various sites on financial trends. The system will update itself with
information on financial markets and then detect the trends between this
data and various news sources. It should potentially look to gather data
from a variety of different sources, and build out a model that
represents the relations between stories and financial information,
presenting it for the user to browse.

Some areas we would consider thinking about are: how you model the data
both financially and news related, how you store the scraped data, how
to identify a tolerance for variations and the ability to allow a user
to specify their own data source.

Revision:

Data analytics on actual trades

Aim: Parties involved in OTC trading are obliged to make public the
details of trades, in real time. This was intended to increase the
transparency, fairness and efficiency of the OTC markets. However,
although the data is public, it is not easy to view and analyse and
therefore the aim of increased transparency is imperfectly realised. The
aim of this project is to provide a convenient means of accessing,
viewing and analysing OTC trade data.

Differences in pricing models used by the participants in OTC market
result in inconsistencies in prices at which derivatives products are
traded. Market participants can benefit from seeing, in real time, the
current prices at which the derivatives are being traded.

A U.S. regulation requires that all firms under its jurisdiction report
their trades, with limited details, to a common repository within a set
time since they were traded. This repository is available for public
viewing and contains information about OTC product volumes and prices.

For this project we would like you to provide a convenient
user-interface for this data. This should allow users to see current and
historic prices for selected derivatives products. Additional
functionality might be added as time allows, such as the automated
identification of pricing anomalies, trending and alerts.

Further revision:

Over-the-counter (OTC) trading of financial products is less regulated
than exchange trading, but also less transparent. To improve market
fairness and efficiency, near-realtime details of OTC trades must
therefore be placed in a public repository. However, since this data is
not easy to view and analyse, the aim of increased transparency has not
been achieved. The aim of this project is to provide a convenient means
of accessing, viewing and analysing OTC trade data. This should provide
realtime data on current prices and trading volumes, historic trends,
and automated identification of pricing anomalies and trend alerts.

Can you give a reference to the repository that the team would be
relying on, and specification of its public interfaces?