Contact: Beatrix Schlarb-Ridley <beatrix@bas.ac.uk>

2019 project: [Groundwater App](Groundwater_App "wikilink")

potential project with BAS using ground-penetrating radar for
identification of aquifers.

Martin, Carlos <cama@bas.ac.uk>

Mark Muller <mmuller.earthsci@gmail.com>

#### previous years

Initial contacts:

- Beatrix Schlarb-Ridley <beatrix@bas.ac.uk>
- Dave Connor <dacon@bas.ac.uk>

Technical contact:

- Matt Polaine <maine@bas.ac.uk>

Design brief: [Antarctic Chasm One](Antarctic_Chasm_One "wikilink")

Extended version - needs to be edited down!

Antarctic Chasm One

The Brunt Ice Shelf in the Antarctic is growing a massive chasm at the
rate of 1.7km a year, that may lead to an area of nearly 1,000sqkm
breaking off and taking the Halley VI base with it. To avoid this BAS
has decided to move Halley VI – a considerable undertaking.
<http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/science-environment-36197657>

Your task is to work with British Antarctic Survey (BAS) to make a 3D
immersive visualisation of this growing chasm, allowing viewers to
descend into it in the way that BBC’s Peter Gibbs did on camera, but
using machine learning methods to extrapolate the growth of the chasm
over time and into the future to the point of eventual separation. This
animation of the crack propagation to be compressed in time, with ~5
minutes representing ~50 years, from detection of chasm change to Brunt
calving. You will have access to many sources of aerial
scans/photographs/video, multispectral satellite imagery, (entire
length) ground penetrating radar cross section of the crack and
photogrammetric modelling of a ~300m section of the chasm.

Key challenges:

The crack propagation trajectory is unknown, although Hilmar can advise
on likely scenarios. Some image footage is missing; some of it is due to
flat light (no shadow) problems, and also because of the scale (4k
video, 25fps, 40km, at multiple drone passes limited to 300m at a time
due to battery performance at low temperatures – not currently
possible). Extrapolation of known data will be required to model
unavailable/unknown aspects of Chasm One.

The single point of contact at BAS will be Matt Polaine, Innovation
Manager. He will coordinate your data/technical requests to the key
science, imaging and audio staff such as Hilmar Gudmundsson, Andrea
Cziferszky and Pete Bucktrout.

The immersive effect will require spatialized audio. Some of this audio
may be available from BAS, some may need ‘creation’.

Depending on the course requirements, BAS may be able to assist with the
supply of some hardware, but funds are limited. We might consider for
example the use of a console such as the PS4pro and VR headset to
provide the VR experience. However given the scale of the landscape,
considerable LOD modelling/horizon may be required to reduce CPU loading
to meet the require fps of dual screens for VR. If the required fps
can’t be met for the VR experience in the time available, then this is
understood.

A final presentation of the project would be expected at BAS, describing
how the project achieved its end result, and what might be possible in
the future/with more time.

Summarising the resource side:

1\. Student resource – team of 6 working for 7 weeks, starting mid
January, about 600 person-hours

2\. BAS resource – one person (the “client”) to attend 3 x 1-hour
meetings during that period

Regarding future data, it is possible that BAS may have more drone
footage taken in November, however this won’t be available until
February 2017. BAS would also wish to use the UCam model for
presentations at BAS, and there might be an opportunity to use the
modelling in a future BBC Horizon documentary about the Halley VI move,
but this is currently speculative.

My previous suggestion:

The Brunt Ice Shelf in Antarctic is growing a massive chasm, that may
lead to an area the size of Wales breaking off. Your task is to work
with British Antarctic Survey to make a 3D immersive visualisation of
this growing chasm, allowing viewers to descend into it in the way that
BBC’s Peter Gibbs did on camera, but using machine learning methods to
extrapolate the growth of the chasm over time and into the future. You
will have access to many sources of aerial scans, ground-based and water
data collected by BAS.
<http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/science-environment-36197657>

Earlier idea:

Antartica at Full Resolution

Many people would like to visit Antarctica, but satellite imagery for
most of the continent is rather disappointing. British Antarctic Survey
have laser scan data, video recordings from drones, and lots of other
environmental and audio data. Your task is to create a realistic
experience, combining different data formats, that allows viewers to
pilot a virtual remote drone from altitude right down to close-up flight
at ground level, integrating data from different resolutions to provide
the best possible experience of being there. You are welcome to build on
and enhance standard viewers or game engines, and we hope to arrange
loan of high-end graphics cards and VR headsets.