For 2023:

Potential client: Adham Ashton-Butt <adham.ashton-butt@bto.org>

As I understand it, you’re looking for an interface that can be used by
bioacoustics researchers to enhance semi-supervised labelling of
classifier training data, alongside application / evaluation of the
resulting classifiers.

We might want to give a hint regarding the kinds of algorithms to be
applied, the nature of the sample data that would be used in a
demonstrator, and the kind of user community this would be aimed at.

In 2022: [Flyathlon](Flyathlon "wikilink"), created in consultation with
BTO Director Juliet Vickery <juliet.vickery@bto.org>

This is an updated variant of [Flyathlon (2019
version)](Flyathlon_(2019_version) "wikilink"), which did not proceed
with a team (previously proposed client: Jennifer Border
<jennifer.border@bto.org>)

Originally based on suggestion by Chris Sandbrook: [Cuckoo
Race](Cuckoo_Race "wikilink")

See also previous project from 2013: [Race the
wild](Race_the_wild "wikilink")

Jenni's original request:

We've done some investigation of the Strava API to allow us to access
the total miles for a group. It doesn't look like this is possible so
the application would need to:

1.  Manage groups
2.  Allow individuals to join a group
3.  Link the app with their Strava account so we can access their data

We've also created some data that we could use as a starting point for
the cuckoo path in a demo system.

We'd also need a website for people to register groups and see outputs
of all groups and a website or (preferably) an App where people could
register for a group and see their individual progress.

## response

Could you give us some information about “Strava”, and how a student
project would have to interact with it?

I wasn’t sure from your message how “groups” are defined (groups of
people or groups of birds?)

Perhaps there is another document, giving background to your discussion
with Chris, that I haven’t seen? Feel free to pass it on.