Client:Wing Yung Chan, The Hut Group <wingyungchan@gmail.com>

Online retailers face the interesting challenge of trying to understand
a potentially large and unknown customer base. Once a customer has
bought a product from a site, we'd like to know what they'll likely buy
next and importantly, WHEN. This project is to build a Machine Learning
system that can use the historic behaviour of hundreds of thousands of
customers (anonymised) to predict how new customers to the site will
behave.

The dataset will be taken from a collection of popular and diverse
websites that belong to The Hut Group. Proposed sites include MyProtein,
LookFantastic and IWantOneOfThose.

## feedback

We do get quite a lot of suggestions for generic applications of machine
learning to business (including two or three stock market prediction
systems in a typical year). I don't have any objection to using machine
learning techniques as a core of the project, but in their second year,
students won't have the skills to develop a very sophisticated
approach - they may do something like simply applying a standard
regression toolkit. This doesn't really provide a great deal of
challenge.

The students work in teams of six, so while one or two of them are doing
this, we'd need to expand the project idea with functionality that the
others might be working on. How about this as an idea â€¦

There are many online shopping sites where users become frustrated -
they can't find what they want, get bored, or simply fail to complete a
purchase because of a usability problem. Retailers would be happy to
help out such customers, if only they which ones were most likely to
benefit. If you could predict which shoppers are about to abandon their
shopping basket based on click stream analysis, then it would be
possible for an intelligent agent (ideally assisted by a live human
operator whose contributions to the conversation are seamlessly
interleaved with robot responses about routine matters) to offer the
customer real-time hints and assistance via a pop-up window.