Suggestions from Jennifer Wright
<jennifer.wright@humanitariancentre.org>. but she will be leaving at
end July. Use info@humanitariancentre.org for followup

1.) Aptivate - <http://www.aptivate.org>. We met with them recently and
they're doing lots of really interesting work, which means they're quite
stretched at the moment, but may have capacity nearer the time of the
project. - Tom Lord - toml@aptivate.org - is our key contact.

2.) Engineers Without Borders - there is a Cambs University Student
Society (http://ewb-cam.org) branch which is supported by the UK branch
of the main EWB organisation. The UK branch would be interesting to
collaborate with. - Chloe Underdown (Innovation Engagement Coordinator),
chloe.underdown@ewb-uk.org

3.) We are also currently working with Harsha Liyanage, from Sarvodaya
Fusion (http://fusion.lk). I know we are currently asking quite a lot
from them in terms of collaboration, and Sonia suggested they may have
more capacity to get involved in planning such a project in the autumn
as opposed to at the moment, but I pass on their details just in case. -
enovation4d@gmail.com

In terms of other NGOs we don't directly have links to but which may be
interested in being involved in such a project:

1.) Practical Action (http://practicalaction.org/technology-justice) -
do some really interesting work on 'technology justice'.

2.) Plan - especially with their 'Because I am a girl' campaign which
seeks to promote gender equality. In 2011 they conducted a 'fast-talk'
consultation with adolescent girls from several countries to get a
better idea of what they see as the innovative and empowering potential
of ICTs in their lives, and then produced a report analysing the
results. Key contacts included on the first page of the report (attached
to this email.)

3.) UNICEF Innovation (http://unicefinnovation.org/about-us) - it says
(here: <http://unicefinnovation.org/get-involved>) "We engage in
partnerships with academia, private and public industry, and with the
design and manufacturing world, with the aim of finding innovative
solutions to the challenges faced by children and their families in
resource-limited settings. We welcome your input, whether it is leaving
a comment in response to a challenge, or getting involved in one of our
projects. If you have a solution to a challenge you think we should know
about please let us know."

4.) The Commonwealth Telecommunications Organisation -
(http://www.cto.int). Its Strategic Plan for 2012-2015 identifies 6
priority areas on which it is focusing its contribution to the use of
ICT4D across the Commonwealth. Tim Unwin, former CEO, wrote an
introduction to our 2011 ICT4D report.