Contact: Chris Lennard <chris@cambridgesciencecentre.org>

Project proceeding this year will be: [Science exhibit interaction
adviser](Science_exhibit_interaction_adviser "wikilink")

Suggestions under development:

1\. Developing the interactive science centre as a learning and research
environment

In this project you'll be developing an interactive science centre
exhibit which allows the user to explore the process of emotional
recognition whilst at the same time collecting valuable data for
psychometrics researchers. The exhibit will let the visitor test their
ability to recognise emotions in photographs of human faces. It will
also allow them to upload pictures of their own face. While they are
performing that upload into a shared data-base and tagging their own
emotion, their concentration will be monitored to assess the validity of
the emotional state which they log into the system. To design and build
this exhibit you will be working with the University of Cambridge
Psychometrics Department, the Oliver Zangwill Centre and the Cambridge
Science Centre. The open-source adaptive testing CONCERTO platform will
be integrated onto a Raspberry Pi powered science centre exhibit. The
Cambridge Science Centre would like to display this exhibit as part of
an exhibition on Perception in the second half of 2013. The research
data gathered may be used to help test brain injured patients in the
recognition of emotions.

2\. Using games to teach the theory of evolution

In this project you will help to broaden the public understanding of the
process of evolution by developing a computer game that is based on the
real observations of the Peppered Moth. The game will be able to be used
in a public interactive science centre exhibit, most likely powered by
Raspberry Pi, as well as be played on-line. In the game, players take on
the role of a predator and need to "eat" a moth by touching them on a
screen. Based on genetic algorithms, the moth wing patterns change over
time and the moths become harder to spot against the background. User
behaviours will be monitored to test the attractiveness and efficacy of
using computer games to teach scientific concepts. The game would be
developed with input from the University of Cambridge Zoology Department
and the Cambridge Science Centre. We would like to display the exhibit
in the Cambridge Science Centre and on-line as part of a Perception
exhibition in the second half of 2013

3\. Using sensing and monitoring to improve hands-on science learning
experiences

Traditional exhibits in interactive science centres are great for
introducing concepts but they often suffer from user disengagement too
early. To learn, a user really needs to apply a concept to reason out a
problem before they gain confidence in that new way of thinking. In
contrast to an un-manned exhibit, a professional science explainer will
often keep their audience engaged by offering challenges and additional
information based on certain behaviours of the participant. In this
project we will placing some sensors in a fairly traditional hands-on
science exhibit such as \[TBD\]. These will be connected to a Raspberry
Pi powered data gathering and analysis engine which will adapt the user
guidance based on activity monitoring of the hands-on activity. We will
track the effectiveness of learning outcomes both with an adaptive and
non-adaptive interface. The outcome of this work will help to guide
future development of exhibits for the Cambridge Science Centre,
potentially making higher quality learning experiences accessible to a
wider audience in a cost-effective manner.

[Category:Raspberry Pi](Category:Raspberry_Pi "wikilink")