Contact: Steve Platt <steve.platt@carltd.com>

[StreetPay](StreetPay "wikilink")

Complementary to StreetView - but the big question for sustainability is
where the roads are going to come from, not just finding out where they
go.

A platform for public consultation around transport policy, which allows
people to compare their own journeys to costs of provision and taxation
revenue, and engage in debate regarding different policy regimes.

[Transport Game](Transport_Game "wikilink")

It's hard for voters and taxpayers to assess what impact different
funding policies will really have on their lives. The goal of this
project is to create an online game that will enable users to explore
issues of transport funding and, in particular, to measure their
personal costs and benefits from road pricing. An underlying model will
simulate the key features of the Cambridge transport network, with users
plotting a number of their typical journeys to create a baseline. They
will then be given the opportunity to “purchase” benefits in the form of
a range of transport infrastructure and service improvements, for
example road quality and public transport. According to the choice of
benefits made, the user will incur a variable mileage-based road user
charge, whose proceeds are available for spending on transport. Making
changes in travel behaviour - for example making a journey by bus or
bicycle rather than by car - will allow the user to reduce or avoid the
charge. The model will also allow users to opt for a reduced rate of
charge and/or a compensating reduction in fuel duty, with a personalised
benefit-cost ratio compared to other players.