Conor Farrington, Department of Public Health
<cjtf2@medschl.cam.ac.uk>

Better project title may be [The Adaptive
Web](The_Adaptive_Web "wikilink")

Newly drafted:

Most websites are designed on the basis that “one size fits all” - for
any kind of user or context of use. Your task is to create a tool that
allows users to author their own policies for customised appearance and
behaviour, for example dark-mode viewing, text subsets, or controls
suited to elderly users or those with disabilities. It should also be
possible to apply data from one user-selected site (e.g. a weather
forecast) to customise the appearance of another. The configuration
process should be easily accessible to a wide range of users - so rather
than vendor-specific browser plug-ins, a more universal solution might
be a configurable online translation service that substitutes
alternative CSS and JavaScript through recipes that can be shared with
others. Such a powerful tool would also require security provision to
guard against misuse.

Original suggestion:

Every time Twitter changes its look or adds new functions there is an
outcry amongst users who are dismayed by yet another top-down change.
What if users had the power to transform their own digital environments
and create personalised interfaces to suit their personality and
priorities? Your goal is to design a suite of meta-design tools to give
users the capacity to redesign the appearance and functionality of
social media sites. The tools should exhibit high liveness and
directness affordances, and should also allow users to create their own
tools for further meta-design possibilities. Finally, the new
meta-design interface should offer data mining capacities to allow for
psychometric analysis of users’ redesigning activities, and to enable
future machine learning applications to assist users with smart
redesign.

Feedback:

Thanks for this Conor. We could do something along these lines, for
sure.

Undergrads would probably struggle to get the intentions of meta-design,
so I wouldn’t emphasise this. But the basic idea is fine.

Technically, this would have to be implemented either as a Chrome
extension, or perhaps as a JavaScript preprocessor/translator.

I doubt that Twitter itself could be modified (but could consult with
some experts in my group). However, the same ideas could be applied to a
more straightforward kind of website - anything that uses a static
layout of interaction elements would be appropriate.

Alan