Contact: Nicolas Graube <Nicolas.Graube@csr.com>

[Location-based teaching](Location-based_teaching "wikilink")

iBeacons/Bluetooth4 beacons are now being deployed in public, retail,
and office spaces and offer the opportunity for micro-location
applications (i.e. you are near X so execute Y). The CL has a large
deployment of beacons that can provide phones location throughout. Your
task is to create a platform that receives beacon sighting information
from Android/iPhone devices and exposes it as location information that
other can build location-aware applications on. You will then use this
platform to create an educational system. It should be possible for
anyone to use this platform to create new types of face-to-face
interactive content that are advertised as available at particular times
and location. Existing content could be imported automatically from
sites such as talks.cam.ac.uk, lecture and seminar timetables,
supervision management systems and so on, but users should be able to
create new location-based content relevant to other learning or event
types.

Earlier idea ...

There are always interesting things happening in meeting rooms and
lecture theatres around the Gates Building. These could be advertised to
interested students and visitors using Bluetooth Low Energy beacons.
Your task is to make an Android app that uses the location beacons
already deployed in the Gates Building, matching different rooms to
events that are advertised on talks.cam.ac.uk, and in the lecture
timetables for the Computer Science Tripos and MPhil in Advanced
Computer Science. You’ll need to extract and convert information from
these different sources. It would also be useful to collect information
on who attends those events, allowing audience members to vote for value
or popularity.

or ...

Location-based teaching

Many Universities are starting to experiment with massively online
courses (MOOCs) to replace traditional lectures. However, it’s also
useful to meet content experts face to face for interactive delivery.
Your task is to create an educational platform based on the Bluetooth
location beacons that are already distributed in the Gates Building. It
should be possible for anyone to use this platform to create new types
of face-to-face interactive content that are advertised as available at
particular times and location. Existing content could be imported
automatically from sites such as talks.cam.ac.uk, lecture and seminar
timetables, supervision management systems and so on, but users should
be able to create new location-based content relevant to other learning
or event types.

--