Contact from Nicky Blake <nicola.blake@coutu.org.uk>

On behalf of Sherry Coutu

Proposed design brief:

[Boosting Skills after
COVID-19](Boosting_Skills_after_COVID-19 "wikilink")

Explanation of requirement:

Digital Boost is an online learning platform to help people who work for
small businesses & charities to be mentored in ‘all things digital’, to
enable them to come out of the COVID-19 crisis stronger.

Many small businesses have been forced to shut their physical locations
due to COVID-19 and many struggle to move online to build up new revenue
streams. Digital Boost offers free interactive Boost Workshops and free
1:1 Boost mentoring Calls for the staff of small businesses & charities
on topics related to digitalisation to help them build up sustainable
organisations through online channels. This will not only help bring
businesses & charities through this crisis, but will also ensure they
are able to stay competitive in the long run in today’s highly digital
world.

As a learning platform, each person should have a unique journey through
the digital boost taxonomy depending on choices they make as they
onboard and what their level of digital literacy is prior to reaching
out to us. Your task would be to create an algorithm that guides each
person on a unique journey sometimes recommending a mentor, sometimes
recommending a workshop and sometimes recommending short stackable
courses. Each user should progress through the entire taxonomy, which is
comprised of 46 sub-categories divided into two tiers. There is no
‘right place’ to start, but they should not be ‘guided’ to do things
that they have already done.

At the moment, the ‘nudges’ take them through the first 3 subjects they
indicated that they needed tuition in, however, after their first three,
we would like to take them the rest of the way through the subjects in
the curriculum so they complete the course.

Currently, there is 1 taxonomy comprised of 46 parts (divided into 2
tiers), 12,000 courses from 6 different providers and you can assume
infinite mentors skilled in the 46 skills in the taxonomy