Victor Haghani <victor@elmfunds.com>

Dear Alan, Ian and Megan,

Vince Darley kindly told us about your Computer Lab Group Design
Projects program, and suggested that a project we’ve been working on may
be a good fit with your program. My company, Elm Partners, would like to
submit a brief for this project, which we think should have a very
significant educational value. Looking forward to discussing this with
you, and hoping it merits a place in your project list.

With kind regards, Victor Haghani CEO and Founder, Elm Partners
Victor@Elmfunds.com

Title: Flipping to a Fruitful Future

We’re facing a savings crisis. Too many in our society won’t have
adequate savings for their retirement, despite favourable long-term
expected returns available in the stock market and government policy
encouraging savings by granting tax-free status to qualified retirement
accounts. People don’t save enough, but more inexcusable is that they
manage their investments poorly. Research we’ve done (please see our
recent paper on ssrn and this Bloomberg article) on how people bet on a
biased coin highlights the need for more effective training in practical
investment skills. We believe that playing a simple coin flipping game
in combination with appropriately linked instruction can effectively
teach people to do a better job managing their savings. This approach to
teaching decision making under uncertainty is novel, and differs with
the most common gamified versions of investing which teach participants
all the wrong lessons about investing-- no one ever won an investing
tournament by buying a market portfolio index fund. A rough prototype of
the game which was used for our experiment is:
coinflipbet.herokuapp.com. The project is to develop an engaging
interactive game around coin flip betting that will more closely
simulate lifetime investing. Users should get feedback on how they’re
doing compared to optimal strategies, such a fractional Kelly betting,
and to the pool of other participants to date. They should be able to
see what their betting behaviour implies about their utility function,
and what in turn that says they would do in other circumstances. They
should get a feel for randomness and learn to be on guard against a
number of powerful and damaging cognitive biases that stand in the way
of sound investing, such as gambler’s fallacy and loss aversion.

-- Victor Haghani Founder www.elmfunds.com US: (307) 222-4725 UK: +44 20
3290 4725