Contact: Emma Salgard Cunha <Emma.SalgardCunha@enterprise.cam.ac.uk>

Emma is based at Cambridge Enterprise, responsible for commercialisation
of research from Cambridge Arts, Humanities and Social Science
departments. Researchers in those departments often have interesting
digital projects, without ready access to technical resource for
prototyping. It's worth contacting her each year, to see whether she
might be aware of potential opportunities

In 2021:

Introduction to Vladimir Vilde, regarding technology for linking from
image watermarks.

In 2020:

I’m working with a conservation and behaviour researcher based in
zoology, Doug Macfarlane, on a proto-social enterprise based around
assessing and directing funding into evidence-based and evaluated
conservation projects.

At the moment the idea is to deliver this as a sort of consultancy to
corporate or other large donors to match them up with small-scale
projects in need of funding. The team have access to data and a formula
which allows them to rank the projects by urgency, efficacy, etc. But
there is also the thought of producing a platform, in the style of a
crowdfunding site, to display and rank projects and to gamify the
process in order to encourage donors to achieve the greatest impact and
possibly even to rank their philanthropic efforts against others in
their sector.

This is Doug’s academic profile. He has built an interesting team of
social scientist and conservation practitioners:
<https://www.zoo.cam.ac.uk/directory/douglas-macfarlane>

Although its less of a design-led project than the digital humanities
projects, I wonder if this could be of interest to your students. If so
I’d be glad to put Doug in touch with you (or whoever is holding the
fort while you are away).