Contact: Joanne Vine <jrv31@cam.ac.uk>

Potential client: Daniel Pett <dejp3@cam.ac.uk> says I’m interested in
quite a few things based around collections and data:

1\) Machine learning and computer vision - the work my former colleague,
Harrison Pim is doing at the Wellcome is along the lines of where I want
to go eg <https://twitter.com/hmpim/status/1052961056727990272> Very
python driven research or R.

Feedback: Harrison Pim's work is probably more the kind of thing that we
might get a Master's student to do. Undergraduates could probably have a
good hack at it, but computer resources are higher than they usually
have, it can often take longer to negotiate access to labelled data than
the span of the project, and it's hard to divide this kind of work among
a team - as you say, usually just one person at a Python console
(followed by waiting three days for the network to be trained).

2\) Predictive modelling of exhibition attendance

Feedback: Predictive modelling of exhibition attendance would have
results largely driven by the quality of your dataset. What kind of
real-time data do you have access to, and is there a substantial amount
of historical data for building the predictive model?

3\) Data science stuff around social media and reviews data from sources
like Tripadvisor

Feedback: It's an interesting idea to work with Tripadvisor. Do
Cambridge museums pick up a lot of reviews there? Do you happen to know
anything about their APIs and terms of service for data mining research?

4\) 3D modelling approaches

Feedback: I presume you mean 3D models of collection objects. Do you
have a laser scanner that could be used for the digitisation stage? We
don't have one in the Computer Lab, but have collaborated with other
museums in the past who used their own scanners, for example in NHM.

5\) Visualisation of any sort

Feedback: Past experience is that CS undergraduates are not that good at
inventing novel visualisations. My research group does a lot of
visualisation research, but for undergrads, we would probably have to
specify exactly what we want their system to look like.

6\) expansion of my crowdsourcing project
<https://crowdsourced.micropasts.org>

Feedback: That's a nice project. Which of the datasets have attracted
most labelling input? Is this in a form that validation and reliability
analysis might be useful?

Original introduction:

After meeting with Andrea Kells, "... feels that there might be scope
for the Museum to offer one or more projects – for example around
digital curation, monitoring visitor interaction with exhibits/visitor
flow, using social media and other sources to collate and analyse
visitor feedback etc."

Previous projects (see also [Hamilton Kerr
Institute](Hamilton_Kerr_Institute "wikilink"), [Cambridge
Museums](Cambridge_Museums "wikilink")):

- [Next-Generation Museum
  Guide](Next-Generation_Museum_Guide "wikilink") - in
  [2008](2008 "wikilink") and [2006](2006 "wikilink")

<!-- -->

- [Smart Poster Picker](Smart_Poster_Picker "wikilink") - in
  [2008](2008 "wikilink")

<!-- -->

- [Pigment Analysis](Pigment_Analysis "wikilink") with [Hamilton Kerr
  Institute](Hamilton_Kerr_Institute "wikilink")

<!-- -->

- [History Phone](History_Phone "wikilink")

<!-- -->

- [Anthropometrics Today](Anthropometrics_Today "wikilink")

<!-- -->

- [The Poet Laureate's web
  thresholds](The_Poet_Laureate's_web_thresholds "wikilink")