Version for 2023:

Client: [Matthew Postgate](Matthew_Postgate "wikilink"), Informeta Ltd
<matthew.postgate@infometa.com>

Humanity needs to respond to climate change, but there is a lack of
science-based policy for sustainable action. Legislation is not
consistent, and corporate actors continue to lobby against climate
legislation even while promoting environmental strategy in other areas.
These factors make it hard for politicians to make essential choices
between fossil fuel strategies that worked in the past, and the
unavoidable future. The goal of this project is to develop a
science-based decision tool, for use when drafting and reviewing policy
proposals, that both analyses the language used and calculates realistic
projects along the lines of David MacKay’s classic book Sustainable
Energy Without the Hot Air.

Older version discussed for 2022:

During the COP26 conference, it became clear that many politicians
around the world do not necessarily follow the party lines of the 20th
century left versus right, but are dividing themselves between those who
mainly plan for the future, and those that focus on protecting the past.
It should be possible to use natural language processing to help the
electorate decide between these alternatives, by identifying the real
allegiance of public officials to classify them as either fossil or
future. Simple bag-of-words classifiers won’t be enough, because anybody
could mislead readers by dropping in random words. It’s likely that
you’ll need to use some kind of deep learning, and also plan for the
possibility of inadvertent bias or even malicious sabotage when
collecting the training set.