### 2019

Lucy.Mair@gresearch.co.uk

Define a simple scripting language and API suitable for creating
algorithms. Can enter scripts directly into an interactive game then see
its performance in an actual real-time car race created with the Unity
graphics engine and physics model Store & rank best algorithms in a
leader board, with new players able to build onto existing well
performing algorithms Think how the algorithm market would extend to
other problem domains.

#### feedback

We had a very similar project with the same title for which your
colleague Dominic Nancekievill acted as client in 2015 [AI racing
market](AI_racing_market "wikilink"). I think this is a good topic, and
happy to repeat it. The proposal that came to me has a few differences
from the one we agreed with Dominic. Are these things that you were
specifically wanting to change, or just trying to be more concise? A bit
more motivating background may be helpful, but we can certainly modify
the previous description

I think the reason that we specified Unity originally is that it might
have seemed intimidating to implement a full physics engine and we hoped
that giving students explicit permission to use a standard platform
would help them to concentrate on novel areas. But since you are well
aware of the background, I’m sure that you could review the team’s
proposal, and give them a gentle hint if they seem to be going in an
unproductive direction.

The other change in the past 4 years is that autonomous vehicles are now
an everyday topic of discussion, so there is no need to explain the
concept by reference to a particular research project like the Google
one. So perhaps we could modify it a little further like this:

## earlier

Contact was Dominic.Nancekievill@gresearch.co.uk

### 2016

[Put your phone to work](Put_your_phone_to_work "wikilink")

Original suggestion:

There are around 40 million smartphones in the UK alone. That's a huge
computing resource which lies unused much of the time as even today's
teenagers rarely check Facebook while they sleep. Design a distributed
compute framework with a central server which can split up large compute
tasks into small jobs and distribute them to mobile clients. Your
solution should be cross platform so using JavaScript and either running
in-browser or via Ionic may be a good choice. Once you have a basic
setup running with a server, client and demo distributed application
there are lots of extensions to consider: How can you secure the
platform so that it can't easily be stolen for use as a giant ready-made
botnet? Can you come up with a business model where clients can pay for
compute time and mobile phone owners are incentivised to provide it?
Malicious phone owners might try to provide bad data either to
deliberately attack a paying client or to increase their processing
speed and therefore get paid more - can you stop them?

### 2015 project

[AI racing market](AI_racing_market "wikilink")

Project suggestion:

Today's high tech financial markets provide a competitive environment in
which having access to the smartest software can make the difference
between success and failure.

We would like you to create a similarly competitive environment where
programs can be designed and then pitted against each other, only with
rather better graphics. The software in this case will be driving cars
in a racing simulation rather than placing orders on an exchange.

Using Unity as a starting point to provide a graphics engine and physics
model, your completed project should allow a competitor to sit down at
an easy-to-understand interface and write a simple controller for a
racing car, then at the touch of a button see that how that controller
fares in a race against those of other competitors (and at least one
which you've created yourselves).

The API should be simple enough that I can knock something up in a few
minutes on the demonstration day which will at least make it around the
track, even if just by sticking to 10 mph and aiming for the middle of
the road. At the same time there should be enough detail in the AI's
view of the world to make it possible to write a truly smart driver
which takes the racing line, responds to other cars and understands as
much of driving as your physics model allows.

We're always looking for ways to identify smart graduates at recruitment
fairs, so if your solution works well we may ask to take it to
universities around the country as a way of identifying high calibre
students.

Modified:

AI racing market

Projects from previous years:

- [Resilient and Rapid
  Raspberries](Resilient_and_Rapid_Raspberries "wikilink")