# Has become [Algo-Trading Game](Algo-Trading_Game "wikilink")

Client: Radmilo Racic, [IMC (Netherlands)](IMC_(Netherlands) "wikilink")
(Radmilo.racic@imc.nl)

Data mining and statistical modeling is an essential part of generating
successful models. There are various approaches to generate a
statistical model, but verification of ideas are usually standardized to
a couple of criteria. In this project, the aim is to create a
back-testing engine that is capable of evaluating different models
according to well-known success metrics such as P&L, and risk metrics
like returns, alpha, beta, max drawdown and sharp ratio. The project
involves efficient parallelization of experiments with parameter sweeps
and visualization of the success of the models. Succinctly put, the
input to this engine is a strategy and the output is a vector of success
metrics mentioned above.

## feedback

I've been trying to think of a way to incorporate this into a product
design problem of a kind that would allow a team to work together on
different aspects of the problem, but I'm afraid I've been struggling
with it. It seems like quite an interesting research problem for a
single student to work on, or perhaps a pair working together, but we
try to find ideas where students with a range of interests and abilities
can make different kinds of contribution to a team project. We also need
to keep in mind that these are only second year undergraduates, so
asking them to create a novel machine learning engine that has a chance
of outperforming existing algorithms may be a little ambitious.

At present, I'm wondering whether we might be able to take elements of
several of the proposals that have been coming from your colleagues at
IMC, and combine these to make a single project that would be better
suited to having a design team work on it.