Contacts:

Spike Bucklow <sb10029@cam.ac.uk>

2021

Spike says: "Digital stuff is now a very small part of my work - I have
a Leverhulme project doing machine learning with DAMTP - but I'm not
sure what I could come up with for your students. And we don't have any
interns like Camille this year because of covid so I can't ask anyone
else to come up with a project either. Sorry."

2019

Could follow up exchange with Kasia Targonska-Hadzibabic
<kt441@cam.ac.uk>, who suggested doing some content analysis of
paintings. This could apply methods from recent PhD or Leonardo Impett.

2018

Project with Camille Polkownik <cp574@cam.ac.uk> (now left Cambridge)

[Pigment Analysis](Pigment_Analysis "wikilink")

2017

Proposal for a student project Build an Interactive and Intuitive Tool
to Assist Art Conservators in Pigment Analysis

The Project

Build an interactive tool (website or app) that would enable
conservators to identify pigments through their microscopic
characteristics. The reason why we would like to make this a student
project is that this educational tool would be in online and in
free-access . It would benefit students and recent graduates in
conservation as well as older conservators who use polarised light
microscopy every now and then and need the support. It also offers the
IT student a collaboration with professionals and most of all, a
multidisciplinary experience .

How are pigments analysed?

As of 2017, various methods are available to analyse pigments. To cite a
few, there is: x-ray fluorescence (XRF), Macro X-ray fluorescence
(MA-XRF), SEM-EDX (Scanning Electron Microscopy with Energy Dispersive
X-Ray analysis), FTIR (Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy). The
major drawback with all these methods is the price: they are expensive
to acquire and need specific knowledge of the machine and its
limitations. Another method to analyse pigment exist: polarised light
microscopy (PLM). It has the potential of solving problems confidently
and quickly , as the sample set-up and analysis can be done under 15-20
minutes. Plus, the investment is minimal , one needs a hot plate and
glass slides for the mounting of samples and a good microscope.

What is currently available to support pigment analysis? - Flowcharts
(paper): very rigid . If one characteristic is missed then it is
impossible to go on. - McCrone Atlas ( www.mccroneatlas.com ): not
adapted for historical pigments. - Pigment Compendium: dictionary, not
an analytical tool . (Eastaugh, N., Walsh, V., Chaplin, T., and Siddall,
R., 2004. The Pigment Compendium: Dictionary of Historical Pigments ,
Oxford: Elsevier Butterworth-Heinemann)

Who would use the interactive tool?

The survey done in July 2017 received 226 responses, mostly from
conservators interested in the project and sharing they would like to
have access to such a tool. A few even offered to test it for us before
the launch. Interviews with conservation students and emerging and
settled conservators alike showed that such a tool would be welcome and
would provide support which would itself bring more confidence.

How is the tool different and useful? The tool would work as a
deconstructed flowchart : the conservator can start with whichever
characteristic he/she wants. The more characteristics you enter, the few
options are presented, narrowing the search. This is more intuitive and
allows more freedom as the analysis is not always straightforward.

Additional information - The content is being written up by myself,
based on available information in the Pigment Compendium and information
from flowcharts. - The website/app would be supported by the IT staff
from the Fitzwilliam Museum and would be hosted at the Hamilton Kerr
Institute in Whittlesford. - The design, amongst other things, would be
up to the student and every aspect would be discussed to produce the
most accurate project.