## 2016 proposal

[Citizen Science for Cancer](Citizen_Science_for_Cancer "wikilink")

### earlier suggestions

Proposed client: Lisa Murray Staff Scientist, Bioinformatics
lmurray@illumina.com

long-term contact Scott Oldham -(soldham@illumina.com)

Suggestion:

Genomics Mechanical Turk

Analysis of genetic data (genomics) is full of classification tasks that
are difficult to solve algorithmically, but which a human expert can
often figure out from a quick glance at the data. Even novices have lots
of insight to offer into these tasks by bringing novel perspectives and
fresh ideas to these complex problems. Getting lots of people to solve
thousands of instances of a problem for you lets you learn general
principles from their proposed solutions, which can then be implemented
algorithmically to improve. The trouble with getting people to try to
solve a difficult genomics problem is that it’s often a bit complicated,
and for most people, not very fun. But we can change that! There are
several successful games created that help scientists solve tough
computational problems, such as Genes in Space (Cancer Research UK) and
Foldit (University of Washington). These programs help researchers
identify broken genes in cancers and figure out properties of potential
drug targets, both crucial problems that need solving to improve human
health.

Let’s make genomics fun! Create a Facebook or mobile game to solve a
difficult genomics challenge—identifying tumor-causing cancer mutations.
Fundamentally, identifying these mutations is a signal processing
problem where the signals are sometimes weak and the noise is variable.
One way to conceive the game would be to imagine a comparison of three
pictures: a “reference” picture and two “test” pictures. A player would
have to figure out which, if any, of the test pictures look like the
reference picture. All the pictures would be abstract representations of
DNA sequencing data. The key will be providing an engaging way of
representing this data from raw sequencing input and creating an
engaging game from this core concept that people will want to keep
playing. We will provide the “problem data” and suggestions for
potential translations into a game setting.

## 2014 project (prize winner)

- [Evolve a Pet](Evolve_a_Pet "wikilink")

## earlier suggestions

- [CheckMate](CheckMate "wikilink")

<!-- -->

- [Genomes are fun!](Genomes_are_fun! "wikilink")