Ideas:

The Royal College of Music Museum maintains one of the richest
collections of music-related objects in the UK and Europe. Standing in
excess of 15,000 items, it represents a range of music-making activities
over a period of more than five centuries. After undergoing extensive
redevelopment, the Museum is reopening to the public in October 2021.
The permanent exhibition has been designed in three sections on the same
floor. These sections are highlighted in, for example, their spatial
arrangement, colour of the walls, and content. The curatorâ€™s intention
is for visitors to follow a particular route around the museum. However,
it is currently unclear which routes visitors will take, where they will
most pause, and the extent to which visitors will be similar to each
other in their choices. A system that automatically traces and maps
visitors' routes around the museum, where they look, as well as where
and how long they pause for will help inform future developments of the
museum.

I just had another idea which is rather novel. We could do step counting
on the phone to try and do dead reckoning of distances people walk and
where they might have gone to. It may also be possible to get \*some\*
GPS information through windows, or location services from your WiFi
hotspots if these are configured with accurate location.

Perhaps we could use QR codes so that visitors are able to access an
audio sample related to a displayed object or case, request cookie
permission to record the device ID, and then include an optional app
that records steps and partial location data for later correlation with
the times that we know a visitor requested the audio for a specific
location within the exhibition?