## Ownership

University of Cambridge policy is effectively that undergraduate
students own the IP rights to their work. Technically the University
owns IP in collaborative work, but this is only so that the University
can intervene if the students cannot agree what should be done; if the
students agree then the University does not assert ownership. Project
groups may choose to release the results of their work under an open
source license, or even form a company to commercialise the design. They
are free to do so. If their design relies on patented algorithms, or
source code in which others hold copyright, clients might wish to warn
them of this. It would be unwise to divulge commercial secrets to the
project group.

## Licensing

If a client believes that the software created by the group could be of
value to their company, they are free to discuss fair terms on which it
might be licensed. However, students carry out this exercise for course
credit, not as a commercial arrangement. More appropriate ways to carry
forward results from a project include offering summer employment to one
or more members of the team, or proposing a related research exercise
that might be the topic of a final year undergraduate project for one of
the team, or even a PhD topic. If software written by the rest of the
team is required in these circumstances, it should be licensed on fair
terms.

## Follow-up Meetings

Please note that any follow up (other than to make arrangements) with
students should be carried out after exams in early June. The students
are under considerable pressure at this time of year.

## Confidentiality Agreements

In rare cases, it may be necessary for students to receive sensitive
information, for which there is a need for a confidentiality agreement.
Where necessary, this can be discussed with the group project
organisers.