Contact: "Elliott, Michael" <Michael.Elliott@jpmorgan.com> and
"Agozino, Biko JJ" <biko.jj.agozino@jpmorgan.com>

### Ideas for 2022

will be coming

### Ideas for 2019

"Agozino, Biko JJ" <biko.jj.agozino@jpmorgan.com>

We certainly do have ideas from earlier in the year that we put aside
for the Cambridge group projects. Let me see where they got to in the
end and get back to you.

### Ideas for 2018

[From PDF to Practice](From_PDF_to_Practice "wikilink")

Background:

The Royal College of Anaesthetists ran their own internal hackathon and
came up with a few ideas. The idea they’d most like to take forward is a
Perioperative Medication Advice app.

Currently, individual consultants / trusts have use their own experience
guidelines around medicines (pre through to post) operation. This leads
to incomplete and non-optimum information being provided to patients.
For example patients taking anti-coagulants may be given differing
advice as to when they should stop taking them prior to operation,
possibly increasing the dangers through bleeding or result in more
costly (to the NHS) blood transfusions. Often there is other
physiological information that needs to be taken into account as well as
just the information provided by the drugs companies. The number of
possible drugs makes giving an individual patient specific, personalised
perioperative drug advice difficult.

The desired solution would be reduce the reliance on human knowledge,
leveraging the best practice, which currently reside in individual
trusts’ policy documents. Specific, tailored information could then be
given to individual patients.

My thought was we could run this as a challenge at CFG (our external
hackathon) London, and as a Cambridge Undergad project next term. This
could then lead into a FFG (our internal pro-bono effort) project next
year, where we can make sure the development is heavily test driven /
rigorous. The challenge is likely to be in getting sufficient info to
build a prototype. When I bounced this off Biko, he suggested we could
use Machine Learning to scrape info from any documentation (PDFs) RCoA
can provide. ---

From my perspective the key challenges of this project will be:

1\. Leveraging Machine Learning and Natural Language Processing
techniques to scrape and rationalize sufficient data from PDF
documentation detailing the guidelines

2\. Creating an Application that will help patients and doctors get
advice on Perioperative Medication specific to the patient I think this
project could provide a Techincal Challenge, and Business Opportunity,
as well as the obvious Human Interest.

What do you think? Could we mold this into something acceptable for the
group projects?

Kind regards, Biko

### 2017 suggestion

[Micro-Volunteering](Micro-Volunteering "wikilink")

"Many charities rely on volunteer networks, but small local charities
sometimes don't have the staff to maintain those networks. On the flip
side, many people would like to volunteer to help a local charity but
aren't able to commit a set number of hours per week. Micro-volunteering
allows individuals to offer up their skills on an ad-hoc basis and for
charities to take advantage of that, and is extremely valuable to
smaller charities or community organisations.

Your task is to design a micro-volunteering exchange, that can match
volunteers to opportunities in their local area. Locality is critical in
micro volunteering, perhaps a graph database (like neo4j) would be
interesting here.

### 2016 project

[Drive by Age](Drive_by_Age "wikilink")

### earlier version

Michael says: "I don't know that we have street by street data, but let
me find out."

Different areas of the UK, or of cities like Cambridge, have
wide-ranging differences in average age. Your task is to help people
understand these differences by changing the appearance of an online map
and/or street view, to simulate the issues faced by the people who live
there. You can start with an interface allowing the user to drive
through Open Streetmap or Google Maps, but modify local parts to reflect
the age of people who live in that area. For example, the appearance of
text and graphics might be modified to simulate visual capability of
older users, navigation controls might simulate fine motor control
issues (shaking hands, etc), and street scenes modified to show effects
of reduced sensitivity to light in night driving. The resulting
interactive system can be used both to better understand age
distribution, and to help younger users appreciate the needs of the
older population in particular areas.

### even earlier

The first idea would be an application or game with the theme of "How
does it feel to be old?". Some initial thoughts from AgeUk on that are:

"For a lot of Gen Y (or even Gen X) who use the internet, apps, games,
social media on smartphones or tablets all the time, every day, it is
really hard to imagine how using this sort of thing might be a really
different experience for an older person. Older people may have fine
motor control issues (shaking hands, etc), eyesight and hearing issues,
and even just issues in processing information at a slower speed. All of
these things may affect how comfortable someone feels about using
websites, apps, or even doing simple things on a smartphone. How can we
create a tool or an app or a game that brings this to life for younger
people – and maybe helps them to think about getting involved with Age
UK or donating as an outcome? "

The second idea would be data analysis and visualization around data
representing the problems faced by older people in different regions of
the UK (e.g. those in rural areas may be more affected by issues of
isolation, whereas those in cities by issues of crime and security).
Again, a very early description

"How can Age UK represent our complex regional-based data about older
people in a commanding, visual way? We have complex data sets (we can
send) in spreadsheet form that map occurrences of many different issues
for older people, e.g. regional stats on disease, mortality, loneliness,
health, etc etc. Could we find a way to visually represent this in a way
that might be useful for PR purposes, to show to potential funders or
donors, in a way that brings to life the multiple issues that older
people use, and the way that Age UK helps in all its 165 localities"

If you think these are promising, I will work to flesh them out into
more fully fledged projects. I think the first has some interesting
aspects of user experience design, and has good scope for delivering a
fully featured end product. The second perhaps offers scope for some
creative thinking about data representation.

### 2015 project

[Careers from Here](Careers_from_Here "wikilink")