Contact Lee Stott <leestott@microsoft.com> and Geoff Hughes
<Geoff.Hughes@microsoft.com>

## Proposals for 2018

[Satavia](Satavia "wikilink") <https://www.satavia.com/> is a
Cambridge-based start-up that provides digital environmental
intelligence to help make aviation smarter and safer. Satavia has
developed a data intelligence platform to provide environmental factor
(e.g., dust, ice, sulphur, volcanic ash) exposure products for aircraft,
and point locations such as airports. The core of the technology is a
patent-pending cloud-based data analytics platform that combines
technology from numerical weather prediction (NWP), Earth observation,
with geospatial location data. The system architecture is being
developed in the Azure cloud in partnership with Microsoft (through
BizSpark Plus) to achieve demand-driven operational scalability and high
levels of cyber-security. Satavia’s mission is to minimise unscheduled
aircraft maintenance caused by the environment. Satavia's solutions also
support ‘smarter flying’, which will reduce fuel burn and aircraft
emissions, and have a positive impact on climate. Satavia’s future
product road map includes environmental intelligence for moving vehicles
such as ships, drones, and autonomous vehicles, and for fixed locations
like ports and cities.

The second project is with [Sport England](Sport_England "wikilink")
<https://www.sportengland.org/> and Matthew Smith in our Microsoft
Consulting team. ( see attached) You will recall it was Matthew that
proposed the Cambridge Air Quality Radar project that Henry Faull, Jirka
Lhotka, Sisi Liang, Henry Mercer, Pan Song, Michael Tang and Henry
Mercer did such a super job with last year:
<https://blogs.msdn.microsoft.com/uk_faculty_connection/2017/04/24/air-quality-radar-empowering-city-users-with-open-data/>

## Projects in 2017

Project 1, Client Matthew Smith <Matthew.Smith@microsoft.com>

[Air Quality Radar](Air_Quality_Radar "wikilink")

Project 2, with [Altitude Angel](Altitude_Angel "wikilink")

To enable drones to fly over long distances without human oversight they
must be able to plan routes that meet certain operating and safety
criteria. For example, a delivery drone may need to make a number of
deliveries within a time constraint, while public safety and policing
may require repeated surveys of a specific area or location. Different
drones have different capabilities; some can hover, others cannot, while
others regular more regular charging. Routing drone traffic safely
through our skies is therefore challenging: avoiding airspace
restrictions, manned aviation and ground hazards, like schools and
parks.

Your goal is to create a cloud-based air traffic control system that
solves these challenges using Altitude Angel’s safety data, can receive
and de-conflict “flight plans” and also efficiently route drone traffic
by making route alterations in real-time so they can avoid each other,
manned aviation and even gatherings of people as identified
automatically from geotagged social media, road traffic information or
cell phone location data.

Notes:

Altitude Angel can provide sophisticated drone simulation software so
that the team can model the inputs from multiple drones without needing
physical hardware, however the goal will be to implement and test the
final solution with drone hardware, which we’ll supply.

Altitude Angel have a fairly robust cloud platform running now from
which the students will be able to obtain the majority of the data
they’ll need. Some data, such as mobile phone location data/traffic flow
data) they have not yet integrated, so if there is a source of this
available that the University can assist with that would be greatly
appreciated.

As part of the project we will arrange for access to a development
environment into which members of the team will be given all the access
required to utilise our data.