Client: Catherine White, [BT](BT "wikilink") <catherine.white@bt.com>

Rather than flying all over the world to attend meetings and
conferences, it seems as though governments and businesses could save
money and time by collaborating remotely. Existing collaboration tools
such as Webex and Google Hangouts work quite well to connect small
groups of people together for a single presentation or discussion.
However, the networking aspect of real world conferences is missing in
these tools. During face to face networking sessions small clusters of
people form and many different conversation threads are generated.
Delegates can walk between groups of people, joining in with
conversations that interest them and introducing themselves or saying
hello to people they would like to speak with. There might easily be
several specialised sub-topics being discussed at the same time. Your
task is to create a multi-touch, multi-user browser extension that lets
groups of people convene and spontaneously form discussions in a
simulated networking session. The screen might be used to connect local
special interest meetings to other similar meetings around the globe.
Sub groups should be able to see who they are talking to in other
places, and a single large screen should support multiple users at the
same location contributing to more than one topic at the same time. You
may like to use the theme to enhance the conversations that emerge, by
for example extracting the keywords and themes and forming an indicator
above each conversation cluster indicating the topic. The interface
should be as simple and usable as possible, without requiring
significant training. It may be more important to order the conversation
clusters and avatars in terms of relevance and relatedness than to place
people into a simulated geographical setting. Each user may have an
additional device such as a smart phone or wireless keyboard which can
be used for typing messages.