Have concluded that it is too far to come to Cambridge for 3 meetings.

Last contacts with Glenn Woodcock <glenn@sparx.co.uk> and Tanya Morton
<Tanya.Morton@sparx.co.uk>

### 2018

OpenFace is an open source facial behaviour analysis toolkit, that can
monitor a webcam to detect emotional state via "action units”, such as
smiling or raised eyebrows. Imagine a game that could adapt itself based
on the emotions of the player. For example, it could display helpful
hints when it sees the player is confused, or make it harder when the
player looks bored. Your task is to implement such a game for the
classroom. The choice of genre is up to you, for example a puzzle game
with hints and different levels, or a platform game with procedurally
generated content.

Feedback:

I wondered if there might be an opportunity to update this, following
recent interest in the iPhone X FaceID system, which has been described
as being used to select or animate emoji’s? Rather than focusing on when
the player looks bored (which is technically difficult - there are few
facial signs other than an open mouth yawn that are both detectable and
associated with boredom), they could create a game which uses a range of
emotions.

Last year's discussion with Glenn proposed:

I Love Physics

OpenFace is an open source facial behavior analysis toolkit that can
monitor a webcam to detect emotional state via "action units" such as
smiling or raised eyebrows. Imagine an online tutorial system that
watched your face, and could provide assistance as soon as it sees that
you are stuck. This would be an alternative to children's toys such as
Osmo (which adapts an iPad camera for reality-based teaching games -
www.playosmo.com). Your task is to implement a physics teaching game
inspired by Osmo's Newton, but where objects bounce off features of the
user's face, and it waits for a happy smile when you have understood the
equations!

### 2017 proposal

The client will be Tanya Morton and Will Bolam
((will.bolam@sparx.co.uk).

Another idea from me:

I Love Physics

OpenFace is an open source facial behavior analysis toolkit that can
monitor a webcam to detect emotional state via "action units" such as
smiling or raised eyebrows. Imagine an online tutorial system that
watched your face, and could provide assistance as soon as it sees that
you are stuck. This would be an alternative to children's toys such as
Osmo (which adapts an iPad camera for reality-based teaching games -
www.playosmo.com). Your task is to implement a physics teaching game
inspired by Osmo's Newton, but where objects bounce off features of the
user's face, and it waits for a happy smile when you have understood the
equations!

Based on two ideas from Sparx:

1\. Crowd-sourcing Human Feedback

As we move towards a world in which the use of technology is ubiquitous
within education, it’s crucial to retain the personalised and insightful
feedback that only a human can provide. Your task is to build a system
that uses crowd sourcing techniques to integrate human feedback into an
otherwise automated system. The system should allow any question to be
asked - think video, audio or image as well as text based questions.
Similarly the system should support answers in any format the user would
like - written or drawn answers could be input using an Osmo, or a smart
phone could capture video, audio or images. The answer should be
uploaded to the cloud ready for marking by another human anywhere in the
world. The marker should be able to overlay their feedback and comments
within the answer provided, and then return the answer and feedback to
the original user. We’ll provide an Osmo as inspiration.

2\. Emotional Learning

Does emotional state and heart rate impact learning? Recent advances in
wearable biosensors (think fitbit) have made this a much easier question
to answer. Your task is to design a system to explore this question,
using biorhythm monitoring to track emotional state whilst your subjects
complete various tasks. Exactly how you test people is up to you, it
could be anything from a simple maths quiz to a complex game with
different physical and mental tasks ­ of course the more engaging it is
the more data you will get! At the end you’ll need to analyse the data
and spot correlations in order to form a conclusion and answer the
question. We’ll provide you with a small budget for suitable wearable
tech.

Earlier idea from me:

Data Science for Kids

Although public decisions in the UK often depend on statistical
analysis, the public are not encouraged to get involved. Future voters
could learn to participate in democratic processes involving data that
will have personal consequences for them, applying evidence to local
policy debates such as speed limits and road design. Your task is to
create an easily accessible tool for kids to become democratic data
scientists, helping their families analyse public experiments such as
Cambridge traffic surveys, going beyond the usual comparison of averages
to apply modern data science techniques such as time series, clustering,
analysis of variance, linear regression etc.

Original suggestion:

Ready for Secondary Maths?

The government has identified that some students are not secondary ready
by the time they leave primary school. Mathematical ability is a key
factor in this assessment. Sparx works closely with Year 7 students,
some of who have a low level of mathematical skill. Sparx is keen to
explore how to support these students in their final year of primary
school and better prepare them for entering secondary school.

Low ability students struggle with basic topics such as: number bonds,
addition, subtraction and multiplication. Your challenge is to design an
engaging and personalised software tool to help teach and re-enforce
these skills. The software should include data visualisation
capabilities to enable the teacher to assess student progress.

### 2015 project

[Flash Mob Learning](Flash_Mob_Learning "wikilink")

Idea 2:

Running a classroom of tablets in a school over their wireless system
can be pretty volatile.

In order to teach a dynamic lesson with 30 students using individual
iPads, can we create a wireless, router-less system? Can we create a
network of tablets without needing a router? How many can we connect at
once? What are the distance limitations?

The implications of this for Sparx could be extensive, because if you
have a group of cheap mobile devices, but no other infrastructure – as
is the case in many developing countries- this solution could be the
difference between accessing education and not.

Idea 1:

“You might not know this, but over 40% of 16 year olds fail their GCSE
maths, in Britain, each year. KPMG has calculated that this costs the
UK, £2.4 billion every year.

Sparx has been working for two years with 15 and 16 year olds to find
out how we learn, and how to improve performance. We have been
developing a platform which can teach them in the way that they respond
to best.

We know that for many of the students we have worked with, they don’t
have basic number sense or their times tables locked down as “learnt’
yet. Can you create a game which would appeal to the 11 – 16 year old
market, which would teach times tables, whilst helping the teacher to
understand what is and isn’t secure in their learning? Can you develop a
game that improves their learning and can give feedback to them and the
teacher and can extend each student, in a personalised and adaptive
way?"