Developed with [Microsoft](Microsoft "wikilink") - contact
Matthew.Smith@Microsoft.com

Deriving health benefits from open data

There are many open data initiatives in the public realm, often with the
aim of supporting innovation of new products, services and especially
businesses. The aim of this project is to show how consumer cloud
capabilities (analytics, web service delivery etc..) can be combined
with public data to efficiently generate and deliver new cloud services
for societal and/or business benefits.

The Sport England Open Data Initiative is keen to find people who can do
interesting things with data that has been published through OpenActive
so far. Over the past few months they have been working with activity
providers (leisure operators, national governing bodies and smaller
activity providers) to open up data about the opportunities they
provide. This data consists of the sort of things a customer might want
to know when deciding to take part in an activity - e.g. type of
activity, date, time, location, difficulty, etc.

Their focus now is to find and support people who can create
customer-facing tools and services that can help people find activities
and become active. They are launching an incubator early next year and
are doing some work to frame the sort of implementations they are
looking for, but some potential use cases could:

• support parents and children to find activities

• be used in a healthcare setting (e.g. GPs finding activities for their
patients)

• emphasise the social aspect of physical activity (e.g. can I find
activities with other people like me?)

The Initiative is interested in whether students, equipped with
Microsoft’s cloud capabilities and their data can generate cool new
products. The project is very open ended… basically what cool new
product/service could you propose by combining the data, technology and
your own ingenuity.