Contact: 'Vicky Smith' <vicky.smith@stridedesign.com>

Initial contact: Andrew Nairne <acn36@cam.ac.uk>

Project manager on behalf of Carol Ann Duffy: Helen Taylor -
pa.poetlaureate@googlemail.com

The Poet Laureate's Web Thresholds

The Poet Laureate Carol Ann Duffy has appointed 10 leading poets to work
with Cambridge University Museums and young people from the county. Your
task is to provide a novel tool that can emulate the exact layout of any
page from a museum web server, but with the original text (perhaps
partly) removed. Invited poets and young people should be able to
substitute their own poetry or other text by typing directly over the
visual layout as if in a drawing editor. These transformed pages can
then be published and viewed from an alternative server that offers a
"mashed up" version of any museum page for public viewing. The technical
challenge is to give users the impression that they are really typing
directly onto the rendered web page, as if onto a piece of paper, and to
do so in a way that emhasises typographic freedom, allowing poets direct
control over all concrete aspects of the juxtaposed text.

Earlier draft and title to be discarded:

Site-specific poetry mash-ups

In most websites, the words are the real content (even Google image
search relies on captions to work properly). But the goal of this
project is to preserve everything except the words. Your task is to
create a website mash-up tool that allows even non-technical users to
modify or transform the words of a site when viewed from an alternative
URL, or with an alternative client. This project is in collaboration
with a scheme where six Cambridge museums will each be hosting a
high-profile poet in residence. You need to design a tool that will be
easily usable by a professional poet, but give them enough technical
freedom to augment, interpret, or even subvert the museum's collection
via its website.