Introduced by [Collusion](Collusion "wikilink")

Daria Jelonek <daria.jelonek@network.rca.ac.uk>,
daria@studioaboveandbelow.com

and perry@studioaboveandbelow.com

Final version: [West Augmentation](West_Augmentation "wikilink")

Alan's suggestion:

The view from the William Gates building, once a peaceful meadow where
horses from the Vet School grazed, has become an ugly building site. The
public exhibition for this year’s group design projects will look out at
this. Your task is to create an augmented reality viewer for visitors to
explore an alternative to the industrial design of modern universities.
They should be able to toggle between a visualisation of the actual
planned buildings, and an alternative featuring “tree tenants” as
proposed by Hundertwasser, urban farming, wildlife sanctuary, and more
radical environmental features. Visitors should be able to interact from
the viewing area via multiple linked devices, including mobiles, large
screens, projectors and VR headsets.

Edited by Daria:

The view from the William Gates building, once a peaceful meadow where
horses from the Vet School grazed, has become a modern but fairly solid
building. The public exhibition for this year’s group design projects
will look out at this. Your task is to create an augmented reality
experience for visitors to explore an alternative and speculative
virtual design inspired by the existing industrial side. Visitors should
be able to toggle between a visualisation of the actual planned
buildings, an alternative featuring “tree tenants” as proposed by
Hundertwasser, urban farming, wildlife sanctuary, and more radical
environmental features such as parametric virtual growing plants and
speculative future scenarios which will bring this building and solid
architecture to life. Visitors should be able to interact from the
viewing area via multiple linked devices, including mobiles, large
screens, projectors and VR headsets. Let's explore the future of
augmented reality devices, the invention of new digital materials and
the growing environment between the physical and digital.