### Proposal for 2019

Contact: ankit.sharma@tpp-uk.com

Final brief: [Bone Doctor](Bone_Doctor "wikilink")

#### discussion

X-Ray Machine Learning

Musculoskeletal conditions affect more than 1.7 billion people
worldwide. These conditions are the most common cause of severe,
long-term pain and disability, causing hundreds of millions of emergency
department visits annually around the world. Successful diagnosis of
musculoskeletal conditions currently requires X-ray analysis by skilled
radiologists. In many parts of the world, however, access to these
specialists is very limited. New advances in machine learning and
medical imaging can help to solve this problem, improving outcomes for
people worldwide. The task is to develop an algorithm capable of
diagnosing these conditions at an expert-level, working with a new image
dataset, and competing with teams from around the world.

The licence for the open data set use is here
<https://stanfordmlgroup.github.io/competitions/mura/>. I am not sure if
you want to check you are happy with the licence first?

#### response

We do often have students from our department participate in machine
learning competitions of this kind, but those are generally PhD-level
specialists in machine learning, using relatively powerful compute
clusters. The group design project course is for second year
undergraduates, with more limited computing resource, meaning that they
would not practically be able to achieve competitive results.

As an alternative, in recent years, we have had a number of teams using
pre-trained networks to implement application demonstrators in areas
related to the original machine learning research but not competing with
professional research teams. Do you think something like that might be
possible, either working with the Stanford competition dataset, or with
another medical condition? Even if pre-trained networks were not
available, students could perhaps use this dataset to train their own
network (likely achieving poorer performance than the Stanford
benchmark), as the basis for a demonstrator in this area.

Hereâ€™s an example of a previous project from a couple of years ago that
used a pre-trained network [Neural Guide](Neural_Guide "wikilink")

### Previous discussion

Contact: Sara Dowrick (sara.dowrick@tpp-uk.com).

Suggestion:

As healthcare resources become increasingly stretched, there is an
ongoing push to enable patients to monitor their own health and
wellbeing. The widespread use of smartphones has seen a large rise in
the number of patient-facing medical apps available to users but
encouraging uptake and use of these apps is a key challenge.

The aim of this project is to create a patient-facing, medical Android
app that will improve, or aid in monitoring, the health of the user. In
order to make the app more appealing and promote uptake, the app should
be presented in a visually appealing 'gaming' format - e.g. a user is
awarded points based on how well they adhere to their recommended salt
intake etc.

In order to provide most benefit, special attention should also be given
to the particular problem, disease or illness that the app has been
developed to help with. A list of suitable causes will be provided to
the project participants before commencing and will ensure there is
plenty of scope for creative thinking and novel implementations...

Response:

It would be nice to do something in the healthcare area. I think it
would be necessary to refine this a bit before advertising, as there are
already a lot of apps in this general area. As an example of a more
specific application, several years ago we had a team do a very
successful project aimed at field support for patient records and
monitoring during Ebola outbreaks.