# Replaced by [Virtual Reality Trading Desk](Virtual_Reality_Trading_Desk "wikilink")

Client: Taylan Toygarlar, [IMC
(Netherlands)](IMC_(Netherlands) "wikilink") (Taylan.toygarlar@imc.nl)

In this project you will be constrained to a single desktop grade
machine with a high-end GPU. Most traders need to either monitor or take
in a very large number of, often numerical, inputs and process them
quickly. The aim of this project is to amalgamate this data in an easily
digestible format that a human can effectively process. The
visualization will consist of different views on the same data, focusing
on different aspects. Apart from standard plots like scatterplots,
histograms and cdfs, on-the-fly filtering and brushing techniques are an
important part of this project. New gadgets like 3D goggles(oculus rift)
or myo can be used for achieving extraordinary results.

## feedback

I have quite a lot of experience with these kinds of visualisation
techniques, but I know that there are commercial products that already
do most of what you are proposing out of the box.

In these design projects, I like students to have the opportunity to
create a novel product of some kind. I was intrigued by your suggestion
that an Oculus Rift might be used, but from our experience so far, the
performance of the Oculus Rift is rather disappointing when used with
graphics cards of the kind that our students have access to. I'm sure
they would be excited by the opportunity to work with the device, but we
would have to make arrangements to get some special hardware for them.
At present, I'm not sure that the proposal is sufficiently concrete to
justify this effort - but if you were particularly enthusiastic, and
perhaps had hardware that you would like to loan to them, I would be
happy to look for a potential technical approach.

However, as I already discussed with Elisa, we have not had clients
coming from so far away before. When Cambridge companies are involved,
it is pretty straightforward to arrange equipment loans and so on. The
additional expense and inconvenience of arranging all this from the
Netherlands might put rather too much stress on the project team to meet
high expectations.