Client: Steve Platt, [Cambridge Architectural
Research](Cambridge_Architectural_Research "wikilink")
<steve.platt@carltd.com>

It's hard for voters and taxpayers to assess what impact different
funding policies will really have on their lives. The goal of this
project is to create an online game that will enable users to explore
issues of transport funding and, in particular, to measure their
personal costs and benefits from road pricing. An underlying model
provided by the Cambridge Centre for Smart Infrastructure and
Construction can be used to simulate the key features of the Cambridge
transport network, with users plotting a number of their typical
journeys to create a baseline. They will then be given the opportunity
to “purchase” benefits in the form of a range of transport
infrastructure and service improvements, for example road quality and
public transport. According to the choice of benefits made, the user
will incur a variable mileage-based road user charge, whose proceeds are
available for spending on transport. Making changes in travel
behaviour - for example making a journey by bus or bicycle rather than
by car - will allow the user to reduce or avoid the charge. The model
will also allow users to opt for a reduced rate of charge and/or a
compensating reduction in fuel duty, with a personalised benefit-cost
ratio compared to other players.